there are a lot of ways this marvelous
language of errors English doesn't make
sense for example most of the time when
we talk about more than one of something
we put an s on the end one cat two cats
but then there's that handful of words
where things work differently alone you
have a man if he has company then you've
got men were probably better for him
women too although if there were only
one of them it would be a woman or if
there's more than one goose there geese
but why aren't lots of mooses nice or if
you have two feet then why don't you
read to beak instead of books the fact
is that if you were speaking English
before about a thousand years ago beak
is exactly what you would have said for
more than one book if modern English is
strange old English needed therapy
believe it or not English used to be an
even harder language to learn than it is
today
2,500 years ago English and German were
the same language they drifted apart
slowly little by little becoming more
and more different that meant that in
early English just like in German
inanimate objects had gender a fork
Gothel was a woman a spoon laughing was
a man and the table they were on board
was neither also called neuter go figure
being able to use words meant not just
knowing their meaning but what gender
they were too and while today there are
only about a dozen plurals that don't
make sense like men and geese in Old
English it was perfectly normal for
countless plurals to be like that you
think it's odd that more than one goose
is geese well imagine if more than one
goat was a bunch of gat or if more than
one oak tree was a field of AK to be
able to talk about any of these you just
had to know the exact word for their
plural rather than just adding the handy
s on the end
and it wasn't always an S at the end
either in merry old English they could
add other sounds to the end just like
more than one child as children more
than one lamb was lamb brew you fried up
your egg grew and people talk not about
breads but bread drew sometimes it was
like sheep is today where to make a
plural you don't do anything one sheep
two sheep in Old English one house to
house and just like today we have oxen
instead of auxes old English people had
tongue and instead of tongues naman
instead of names and if things stay the
way they were today we would have iron
instead of eyes so why didn't things
stay the way they were in a word Vikings
in the 8th century Scandinavian
Marauders started taking over much of
England they didn't speak English they
spoke Norse plus they were grownups and
grownups aren't as good at learning
languages as children after the age of
roughly 15 it's almost impossible to
learn a new language without an accent
and without slipping up here and there
as we all know from what language
classes are like the Vikings were no
different so they had a way of smoothing
away the harder parts of how English
worked part of that was those crazy
plurals imagine running up against a
language with egg Roo and gat on the one
hand and then with other words all you
have to do is add s and get days and
stones wouldn't it make things easier to
just use the S for everything that's how
the Vikings felt - and there were so
many of them and they married so many of
the English women that pretty soon if
you grew up in England
you heard streamlined English as much as
the real kind after a while nobody
remembered the real kind anymore
nobody remembered that once you said
Dora instead of doors and hand instead
of hands plurals made a lot more sense
now except for a few holdouts like
children and teeth that get used so much
that it was hard to break the habit
the lesson is that English makes a lot
more sense than you think thank the
ancestors of people in Copenhagen and
Oslo for the fact that today we don't
ask for a handful of P night instead of
peanuts
although wouldn't it be fun if for just
a week or two we could
you